NIT JALANDHAR
Vision: To build a rich intellectual potential embedded with interdisciplinary knowledge human values and professional ethics among the youth, aspirant of becoming engineers and technologists, so that they contribute to society and create a niche for a successful career
Mission: To become a leading and unique institution of higher learning, offering state-of-the art education, research and training in engineering and technology to students who are able and eager to become change agents for the industrial and economic progress of the nation. To nurture and sustain an academic ambience conducive to the development and growth of committed professionals for sustainable development of the nation and to accomplish its integration into the global economy 
Quality Policy: 
•	To develop technical human resource of excellence suitable for global requirements. 
•	To ensure good quality academic and industrial research programmes in different area of engineering and technology. 
•	To generate industry-institute synergy for shaping technical education to meet the requirement of industry.  

	Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology was established in the year 1987 as Regional Engineering College and was given the status of National Institute of Technology (Deemed University) by the Government of India on October 17, 2002 under the aegis of Ministry of Human Resource Development, New Delhi. Now the Ministry of Human Resource
Development, Government of India has declared the Institute as “Institute of National Importance” under the act of Parliament-2007.  A large number of reputed industrial houses in the country visit the Institute and select the final year students as Engineers/ Management Trainees. As one of the National Institutes of Technology (NIT), the Institute has the responsibility of providing high quality education in Engineering, Technology and Sciences to produce competent technical and scientific manpower for the country. The Institute offers BTech, MTech, MSc, MBA and PhD programmes in several disciplines of engineering, technology and sciences.  
 
1.1  
 	Location 
The city of Jalandhar is situated between the rivers Sutlej and Beas on National Highway 1. It is one of the important towns of Punjab and is known for rich educational, cultural and literary activities. It is an internationally renowned industrial centre for sports goods, leather goods and hand-tools.  The city is 370 kms away from Delhi enroot to Amritsar and is easily accessible from Delhi by train or bus.  The Shatabdi Express trains plying from New Delhi in the morning at 07.20 hrs and in the evening at16.30 hrs.are the best modes of travel to Jalandhar.  This train takes less than 5 hours to reach Jalandhar city. 
How to reach us: The institute is located on G.T Road Amritsar bye-pass at a distance of 15 km from Jalandhar Bus Stand, 12 km from Jalandhar City Railway Station, and 18 km from Jalandhar Cantt Railway Station. 
1.2  	Campus 
The Institute campus is wide spread over an area of 154 acres. It has many topographical features, various buildings of different nature with clean and wide roads surrounded by a green belt. The campus area has been broadly divided into different functional zones: (i) institution zone for teaching departments/centers/administration (ii) residential zone for the faculty and staff (iii) students’ hostel zone. Other amenities on the campus include a guest house, a community centre, a dispensary, shopping centre, banks, post office, sports complex, playgrounds, new tennis courts, basketball courts, volleyball courts, open air theatre, central seminar hall and night canteen etc. 
 
1.3  	Administration 
Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar is an autonomous Institute under the aegis of Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India, New Delhi. The Institute functions under the overall control and guidance of the Board of Governors, the Director being the Executive Head of the Institution. The other administrative bodies of the Institution are the Senate, the Finance Committee, and the Building and Works Committee-the Registrar, being the Secretary. 
There are five Deans in the institute: 
•	Dean Academic 
•	Dean Planning and Development 
•	Dean Research and Consultancy 
•	Dean Faculty Welfare 
•	Dean Students Welfare 

2. Study programs:
The institute offers following undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes 
2.1  	Undergraduate Programmes 
Four year Bachelor of Technology (BTech) Programmes   
•	Bio Technology • 	Computer Science and Engineering 
•	Chemical Engineering 	• 	Electronics and Communication Engineering 
•	Civil Engineering 	• 	Industrial and Production Engineering  
	 	- 1 -
 
 
•	Instrumentation and Control Engineering 	• 	Textile Technology 
•	Mechanical Engineering 
 
2.2 	Postgraduate and Research Programmes 
2.2.1 	Two year regular MTech Programmes 
•	Chemical Engineering(Department of Chemical Engineering) 
•	Computer Science and Engineering (Department of Computer Science and Engineering) 
•	Control and Instrumentation Engineering(Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering) 
•	Electronics and Communication Engineering(Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering) 
•	Manufacturing Technology(Department of Industrial and Production Engineering) 
•	Mechanical Engineering(Department of Mechanical Engineering) 
•	Structural and Construction Engineering(Department of Civil Engineering) 
•	Textile Engineering and Management(Department of Textile Engineering) • 	VLSI Design (Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering) 
 
2.2.2 	Two year regular MSc Programmes 
•	Chemistry 
•	Physics 
•	Mathematics 
 
2.2.3     Two year regular MBA Programme 
 
2.2.3 	PhD Programmes 
 	 
The Institution offers PhD (Full Time) in all the departments in various disciplines.  
Admission to B.Tech students:
3.1  	Admission under JEE (Main) 	 
Admission criteria to undergraduate engineering programmes at NITs, IIITs, other Centrally Funded Technical Institutions, Institutions funded by participating State Governments, and other Institutions shall include the performance in the class 12/equivalent qualifying examination and in the Joint Entrance Examination, JEE (Main). The Paper-1 (BE /BTech.) of JEE (Main) will also be an eligibility test for the JEE (Advanced), which the candidate has to take if he/she is aspiring for admission to the undergraduate programmes offered by the IITs. The States of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland and Odisha have joined JEE (Main) system. Therefore, the candidates seeking admission to the institutions in these states, which were earlier admitted based on their State Level Examination, are also advised to fill in the JEE (Main) - 2015 application form online. At BTech level, students are admitted through JEE (main) examination conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi.  As per the direction of the MHRD 50% of the seats in NITs will be filled from eligible candidates of states where NITs are located and rest 50% will be filled on all India Merit basis. The admissions are made centrally by CSAB (Central seat allocation board) as per the directions of MHRD. For latest information related to CSAB, kindly visit www.csab.nic.in. 
 
3.2 	DASA Admission 2015 (15% Supernumery seats) 
Admissions for Foreign Nationals/ Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs)/ Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) under DASA (Direct Admission of Students Abroad)scheme of Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India for undergraduate programmes in Engineering/Architecture for the academic year 2015-16 to National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs), Schools of Planning and Architecture (SPAs) and other premier technical institutions in India.  
 
3.2.1 	Admissions under DASA Scheme 2015-16 
From time immemorial, India has been a centre for learning. Indian universities and institutes of higher education and research have made a significant contribution in science and technology and have played a lead role in transforming the country into a knowledge society. India can claim its position as one of the leading countries providing affordable higher education to its people as well as to students and scholars from countries all over the world. Students can be assured of experiences rich in traditions, heritage, and exposure to diverse culture which would enable them to acquire the necessary skills to succeed in today’s global economy without geographical barriers. The Technical Institutions which are participating in DASA 2015-16 have established themselves among the top ranked institutions in the country in both teaching and research and the graduates are assured of a rewarding professional career. A degree from any of these institutions is among the most competitive of its kind when pursuing an international career in architecture, engineering or technology. The admission to Foreign Nationals/ Persons of Indian Origin/ Non-Resident Indians to undergraduate programs in Premier Technical Institutions is being offered under DASA scheme of MHRD from the academic session 2001-02 onwards.  MHRD has entrusted the coordination of the admission process under DASA scheme for the academic year 2015-16 to MNIT Jaipur. For details please refer to DASA website: www.dasanit.org 
 
 
3.2.2 	Academic Eligibility  
Candidates must have passed the qualifying examination, i.e. Senior Secondary [10+2] or equivalent from any system of education as recognized by the Association of Indian Universities (AIU). Candidate should have completed successfully Mathematics, Physics and any one of the subjects from (Chemistry, Bio-technology, Computer Science, Biology) - in 
11thand/or 12th, as applicable in the respective boards. Must have secured a minimum of at least 60% aggregate marks or 6.50 (on a 10 point scale) or equivalent in the qualifying examination. Candidates appearing for the qualifying examination with the above-mentioned subjects in the academic year 2014-15 and expecting their final results latest by September 15, 2015 may also apply.  
AND  
Candidate should have a minimum total valid score of 1440 in SAT Subject Tests (Subjects: Mathematics Level 2, 
Physics and Chemistry). SAT subject test score has to be sent directly through College Board to MNIT Jaipur (Institute 
Code: 7664). Internet downloaded score cards are not acceptable. Applicants at the time of registration for SAT Subject Tests should indicate Institute code 7664 for sending their scores to MNIT Jaipur. Applicants who have taken multiple attempts in SAT Subject Tests can send valid score to MNIT Jaipur directly through College Board USA. The best valid score in each subject will be considered for arriving at the total score which will be used for merit list preparation. SAT Subject Test scores received till 1st June, 2015 only will be considered for preparation of merit lists for Round 1, Round 2 and Round 3. 
 
3.2.3 	Residential Requirement  
Candidates must be Foreign Nationals/ Persons of Indian Origin who have completed the qualifying examination in any country OR Indian Nationals studying abroad. In case of Indian Nationals, they must have completed their 11th and12th standard or equivalent from outside India.  
 
3.2.4 	Application Fee payment  
Registration fee and first semester tuition fee: A total amount of US$ 4300[US dollars four thousand three hundred only] is required to be paid along with the application form. This is towards non-refundable registration fee of US$ 300 (US Dollars Three hundred only) and first semester Tuition Fee of US$ 4000 (US dollars four thousand only). Foreign Nationals, who are nationals of SAARC countries, are eligible for 50% Tuition Fee waiver provided they have passed the qualifying examination in SAARC countries. They are required to pay an amount of US$ 2,300 [US Dollars Two thousand and three hundred only] along with the application form (i.e. US$ 2,000 towards first semester tuition fee and a nonrefundable registration fee of US$300). 
The fee can be paid either through SWIFT Transfer or e-payment. Charges for fee payment, if any, should be borne by the candidate. 
 
3.2.5 	Submission of Application  
The submission of application is a two-step process, both are essential.  
a.	Online application (http://www.dasanit.org) and submission of required documents online (scanned and uploaded). No 
hard copy of application or supporting documents needs to be sent. 
b.	SAT subject test score to be sent to MNIT Jaipur through College Board, USA (Institute Code 7664) 
 
3.2.6 	Seat Allotment Procedure  
Seat allotment will be based on SAT subject test scores and the choices given by the candidate, in the order of their merit and priority taken together.  
 
Participating Institutions  
National Institutes of Technology (NITs)  
1	National Institute of Technology, Agartala, Tripura  	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitagartala.in  
2	Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh   	 	 	www.mnnit.ac.in  
3	National Institute of Technology, Arunachal Pradesh 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitap.in  
4	Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh  	 	 	www.manit.ac.in  5 National Institute of Technology, Calicut, Kerala  	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitc.ac.in  
6	National Institute of Technology, Delhi  	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitdelhi.ac.in  
7	National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, West Bengal  	 	 	 	 	www.nitdgp.ac.in  
8	National Institute of Technology, Goa   	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitgoa.ac.in  
9	National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh  	 	 	 	 	www.nith.ac.in  
10	Malaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur, Rajasthan  	 	 	 	 	www.mnit.ac.in  
11	National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, Punjab 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitj.ac.in  
12	National Institute of Technology, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand 	 	 	 	 	www.nitjsr.ac.in  
13	National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, Haryana  	 	 	 	 	www.nitkkr.ac.in  
14	National Institute of Technology, Manipur  	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitmanipur.in  15 National Institute of Technology, Mizoram  	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitmz.ac.in  16 Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur  	 	 	 	 	www.vnit.ac.in  
17	National Institute of Technology, Patna, Bihar   	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitp.ac.in  
18	National Institute of Technology, Puducherry, Karaikkal  	 	 	 	 	www.nitpy.ac.in  
19	National Institute of Technology, Raipur, Chhattisgarh   	 	 	 	 	www.nitrr.ac.in  
20	National Institute of Technology, Rourkela, Orissa 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitrkl.ac.in  
21	National Institute of Technology, Sikkim  	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitsikkim.ac.in  
22	National Institute of Technology, Silchar Assam 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nits.ac.in  
23	National Institute of Technology, Srinagar, Kashmir 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nitsri.net  
24	Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology, Surat, Gujarat 	 	 	 	www.svnit.ac.in  
25	National Institute of Technology Karnataka, Surathkal, Karnataka  	 	 	 	www.nitk.ac.in  
26	National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli, Tamilnadu  	 	 	 	 	www.nitt.edu  
27	National Institute of Technology, Warangal, Andhra Pradesh  	 	 	 	 	www.nitw.ac.in 
 
Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs)  
28	Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad, (Jhalwa & Amethi Campus), UP  	 	www.iiita.ac.in  
29	ABV-Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management, Gwalior, MP  	 	 	www.iiitm.ac.in  
30	Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Jabalpur, MP  	 	www.iiitdmj.ac.in  31 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design & Manufacturing, Kancheepuram, Chennai  	www.iiitdm.ac.in  
 
Schools of Planning and Architecture (SPAs)  
32	School of Planning and Architecture, Bhopal   	 	 	 	 	 	www.spabhopal.ac.in  
33	School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi 	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.spa.ac.in  
34	School of Planning & Architecture, Vijayawada  	 	 	 	 	 	www.spav.ac.in  
 
Other Premier Technical Institutions  
35	PEC University of Technology, Chandigarh  	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.pec.ac.in  
36	Delhi Technological University, Delhi   	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.dce.ac.in  
37	Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology Delhi   	 	 	 	 	www.iiitd.ac.in  
38	Sant Longowal Institute of Engineering and Technology, Longowal, Punjab  	 	 	www.sliet.ac.in  
39	National Institute of Foundry and Forge Technology, Ranchi, Jharkhand   	 	 	www.nifft.ernet.in 
40	Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University, Gandhinagar   	 	 	 	 	www.pdpu.ac.in  
	41National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology, Aurangabad   	 	www.aurangabad.nielit.gov.in 
	42 Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology Delhi  	 	 	 	 	 	 	www.nsit.ac.in 
 
For details and Information brochure visit  
Contact Details  
Coordinator DASA 2015-16 
DASA office Malaviya National Institute of Technology Jaipur 
J.L.N. Marg, Jaipur-302017, Rajasthan, INDIA  
Phone: +91 141 2713164  
Fax: +91 141 2529029  
Email: dasa2015@mnit.ac.in 
Website: http://www.dasanit.org 
 
3.3 	Academic System 
(The information regarding academic system in this prospectus is for information only. The relevant regulations as approved by institute senate from time to time will be applicable to students.) 
The academic system at NIT, Jalandhar is framed on a credit based semester examination system. The credit system envisages a continuous evaluation of student’s performance, and provides flexibility for academic progress based on individual ability and convenience, subject to the constraint of the minimum requirements for continuation of the academic programme. The students are awarded a letter grade from the prescribed grading system in each course registered by them. For each pass grade, the students accumulate the course credits as earned credits. The academic performance of the students is indicated in terms of the number of credits that he/she earns and the weighted grade point average. A specified minimum number of credits should be acquired on semester or session basis in order to qualify for continuation in the academic programme and for the award of degree. 
 
3.3.1 	Credits 
Each lecture/tutorial of one hour duration per week in a semester is assigned one credit. Each laboratory hour per week in a semester is assigned half credit.  However, some courses are preparatory in nature and have half the credit weightage of a normal course. The courses without credit are termed as noncredit (NC) courses. 
 
3.3.2 	Grades 
In a grading system, the evaluation in terms of marks is replaced by the award of letter grades. The structure and guidelines for the award of grades is given below: 
 
	3.3.3 	Structure of Grading System 
Grade 	Points 	Description  of  performance 	Recommended Cut 
off marks* 
S 	10 	Outstanding 	90 
A 	09 	Excellent 	80 
B 	08 	Very Good 	70 
C 	07 	Good 	60 
D 	06 	Average 	50 
E* 	05* 	Marginal 	40 
I 	- 	Incomplete 	- 
U 	- 	Unsuccessful 	- 
W 	- 	Withheld due to shortage of attendance or withdrawal 	- 
NP 	- 	Audit Pass 	- 
NF 	- 	Audit Fail 	- 
*Subject to confirmation based on standard deviation, if the sample size is greater than 20, and is flexible to the recommendation of the individual course coordinator with proper justification. However minimum marks to assign a pass grade must be 40 for all academic programmes run in the Institute. 
The grades will be awarded to a student in each registered course including a laboratory course, based on his/her performance evaluated through a prescribed scheme of evaluation.  The credits for the courses in which a student has obtained “E” (minimum passing grade for a course) or a higher grade will be considered as credits earned by him/her.  In addition, the course in which a B Tech student to get NP grade, will also count towards his/her earned credits but to the maximum extent of 8 credits.  Any course in which a student has obtained “W” or “NF” grade will not be counted towards his/her earned credits. 
In case of other (elective) courses in which U or W grade has been obtained, the student may take the same course or any other course from the same category when it is offered next.  Further, “U” grade secured in any course stays permanently on the grade card.  The weightage of these grades is not counted in the calculation of the SGPA and CGPA. An “I” grade denotes incomplete performance in any course due to absence at the end of semester.  Upon completion of all course requirements, the “I” grade is replaced by a regular grade. The grades NP and NF are awarded in a course that the student opts to audit.  Audit applications are allowed during the first four weeks of a semester.  The audit pass (NP) grade is awarded if a minimum “E” grade is obtained in the course and attendance is above 75% in the classes.  If either of these requirements is not fulfilled, the audit fail (NF) grade is awarded.  In courses, where NP grade is obtained, the corresponding course credits are counted towards earned credits.  The grades obtained in an audit course are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 
A “W” grade is awarded in a course where the student has opted to withdraw from the course.  Withdrawal from a course is permitted until one week after the class test-I. 
 
3.3.4 	Grade Point Averages 
The performance of a student will be evaluated in terms of two indices, viz., the Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for a semester and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for all the completed semesters at any point of time. The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses, registered for in the semester: 
 
  
 
The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades, except audit courses, obtained in all completed semesters. 
 
  
 
3.4. Rules and Regulations for B.Tech Programmes 
 
3.4.1     Registration 
Registration is an important procedural part of the academic system which ensure the willingness of the student to continue in the course of the study in the institute. No credit is given to the student who attendts a course without a formal registration. The name of the registered student only appears on the roll list of the courses registered. 
Pre-registration for each semester will be done according to a specified schedule prior to the end of the previous semester and paying the require tuition fee to the institute. 
In absentia registration will be allowed only in rare cases at the discretion of Dean (Academic). In case of illness or absence during registration, the student should intimate the same to the Dean (Academic). Each student will be given a registration record which will be an offcial record of courses registered. Add, Drop, Withdrawl and Audit will be marked on this sheet itself by the academic section. The registration record should be retained by the student until he/she gets the Semester Grade card for the corresponding semester. 
 
The following credits are required to be earned for the registration in the next semester for BTech batches: 
 
S.No 	2012 onwards 	Previous batches 
i 	25 	30 
ii 	50 	60 
iii 	75 	90 
 
3.4.2    Advice on Courses 
At the time of completing the registration form, each student should consult his/her HOD concerned to finalize the academic programme, keeping in view minimum/maximum numbers of total and lecture credits, past performance, backlog of courses, SGPA/CGPA, workload and student’s interest. Special provisions exist for academically weak students. 
 
3.4.3      Credits Requirments for Registration 
A student must register for aminimum of 15 credits and a maximum of 30 credits in a semester wherein theory credits registered by a student should not be less than 9 credits. 
There is a minimum number of student registration to run an elective course and will be decided by the department concerned from time to time. 
 
3.4.4  	Late Registration 
I.	For those students who were not on campus during the period of registration in the previous semester, registration procedure will be completed on a later date with permission of the Dean, Academic. 
II.	For reasons beyond his/her control, if a student is not able to register or send an authorized representative with a medical certificate, he/she may apply to the Dean (Academic) for late registration. The Dean will consider and may approve late registration in genuine cases on payment of an extra fee of Rs. 500/-. 
a. Late registration is allowed until one week after the start of the semester. The attendance requirements of 75 % will not be relaxed in late registration cases and same will be counted from the date of start of the class. 
 
3.4.5     Addition, Deletion, Audit and Withdrawal from courses 
I.	Add and Drop: A student has the option to add or delete courses from his/her registration during the first week of the semester. 
II.	Audit: a student may also apply for changing a credit course to an audit one within one week of the end of the first class test. 
III.	Withdrawal: A student who wants to withdraw from a course should apply on a prescribed form within one week of the end of the first class test. A withdrawal grade (W) will be awarded in such cases. 
 
3.4.6   	Attendance Criteria Requirement 
I.	All students must attend every lecture, tutorial and practical class. The institute desires 100% attendance with a provision for consideration for absence on account of late registration, sickness or other such contingencies. The attendance requirement of 75% of the scheduled classes in course is needed for appearing in the examination. 
II.	A student with less than 75% attendance in a course during a semester will be awarded ‘W’ grade in that course irrespective of his/her performance in the tests. The course coordinator, while awarding the grades, will take into account the consolidated attendance record for the whole semester.  
III.	In order to maintain the attendance record of a particular course, a roll call will be taken in every scheduled lecture, tutorial and practical class. 
IV.	For the purpose of attendance, every scheduled practical class will count as one unit irrespective of the number of contact hours. 
V.	The course coordinator will consolidate the attendance record for the course from the beginning of the semester till the end of the semester. The teacher offering the course shall notify the students having less than 75% attendance with an intimation of the same to the concerned Head of the Department and Dean (Academic) / Associate Deans. 
Every faculty offering a course will take attendance till three calendar days before the last instruction day in the semester. The percentage of attendance, calculated up to this instruction day, will be indicated in a code number/letter as follows:  
 
Attendance rounded to 	Code No/letter 
95% and above 	H 
85% to 94% 	9 
75% to 84% 	8 
Below 75% 	L 
 	 
A student who has attendance code letter L will not be allowed to sit for end semester examination in the course in which the shortfall exists. 
 
3.4.7 	Absence during the Semester 
I.	A student must inform the Dean (Academics) immediately of any instance of continuous absence from classes. 
II.	A student who is absent due to illness or any other emergency, upto a maximum of two weeks, should approach the course coordinator for make-up in quizzes, assignments and laboratory work.    
III.	A student who has been absent from a class test due to illness should approach the course coordinator for a make-up test on return to class. This request should be supported with a medical certificate from the institute Medical Officer. A Certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner will also be acceptable in those cases where a student is normally residing off-campus, in such cases the registration number of medical practitioner should explicitly appear in the medical certificate. Prior to approaching the course coordinator, the student must file a copy of the medical certificate with the academic section. 
IV.	In case of absence on medical grounds or other special circumstances, before or during the end semester examination, the student can apply for I-grade. 75% attendance in a course is necessary for being eligible for request of I-grade in that course. An application requesting an I-Grade should be made at the earliest, but not later than the last day of the end semester examination. This application should be made to the concerned head of department, depending on the merits of the case in discussions with concerned course coordinator, will refer the matter to Dean (Academic). The student should, subsequently, complete all course requirements according to prescribed schedule. 
V.	In special situations arising due to student’s inability to be present at the institute during the stipulated period, the period for convocation I grade can be extended to the beginning of the next semester. Approval for this extension is granted by Dean (Academic), on the recommendations of the concerned Head of Department of the student, the course coordinator(s), and the Chief Warden in case of a boarder. A request to this effect should be included in the application for I-grade. 
VI.	In case the period of absence on Medical ground is more than 20 working days during the semester, a student may apply for withdrawal from the semester i.e. withdrawal from all  courses registered in that semester. Such applications must be made as early as possible and latest before the start of the end semester examinations. No application for semester withdrawal will be considered after the end semester examination have commenced. Each application for semester withdrawal will be examined by the Dean (Academic) and depending on the merit of the case; an appropriate recommendation will be made. Partial withdrawal from courses registered in a semester is not allowed. 
VII.	If a student is continuously absent from the institute for more than four weeks without notifying the Dean (Academic), his/her name will be removed from the Institute rolls. 
 
3.4.8 	 Academic Performance Monitoring    
       The academic performance of students is monitored at the end of each semester by the Dean (Academic) and students failing short of prescribed minimum requirements will be informed accordingly and subsequent monitoring will be followed. The termination of the registration of the students with unsatisfactory performance will be referred to the Senate. The Senate would then appropriately make the final decision on merit of each case. 
 
3.4.9 	Measures for helping SC/ST students (as per Senate decision in its 9th meeting) 
       A number of measures exist for helping students belonging to SC/ST categories. A senior staff member is appointed as Advisor to SC/ST students to advise them on academic and non-academic matters may be approached for obtaining assistance. 
 
3.4.10 Change of Branch (Degree Programme) 
I.	A student admitted to a particular discipline of BTech will normally continue in that discipline till completion of the degree. 
II.	The provision of change of discipline of study of a student should be made after the completion of first two semesters (1st year) provided vacancies/vacancy exist(s) in discipline(s). 
III.	The filling of vacancies for change of discipline should be done category wise (General, SC, ST or any other category notified by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India, New Delhi). 
IV.	A student is eligible to apply for change of discipline at the end of first year(after 2nd semester) only, provided he/she satisfies the following criteria: 
	i. 	CGPA for General category students : greater than or equal to 7.50 
       CGPA for SC/ST category students: greater than or equal to 6.50 ii. Earned credits at the end of 1st year must be equal to the credits prescribed in the scheme of first and second semester (1st year) of their studies. 
	iii. 	Any credits earned through contact course, shall not be considered for discipline change. 
V.	The change of discipline will be permitted strictly in order of merit as determined by the CGPA at the end of the first year subject to the limitation that (a) the actual number of students in the 3rd semester in the branch to which transfer is to be made, should not exceed the sanctioned strength and (b) maximum 10% registered students in 3rd semester of the discipline from which transfer is sought, will be allowed the change of discipline. 
VI.	Application for a change of discipline must be made by intending eligible students in the prescribed form for this purpose. The Deputy Registrar (Academic) will call for application and the completed application form must be submitted to him by the last date specified in the notification. 
VII.	The alteration of choices will not be permitted after the last date. 
VIII.	Change of discipline shall be made strictly on the basis of inter-se-merit of the applicants, based on CGPA. Ties will be broken by JEE (main) rank of applicants. 
 
3.4.11 	Special Requirement for Degree 
The students entering in the Institute are required to undergo the following non-credit mandatory requirements towards completion of their degree:- 
1.	NSO (National Sports Organization) 
2.	NCC (National Cadets Corps) 
3.	NSS (National Service Scheme) 
•	All students are required to enroll for either one of NCC, NSO or NSS activity in their first year. 
•	On completion of 100 hours, student is awarded “Satisfactory” grade. 
•	Further, this 100 hours requirement over a period of one year is broken into 50 hours requirement per semester. 
•	The student is registered in NCC-1/NSO-1/NSS-1 level in the 1st Semester and on obtaining “Satisfactory” grades he/ she is allowed to registered in NCC-2/NSO-2/NSS-2 in the 2nd Semester. 
•	Unless a student obtains “Satisfactory” grade in both 1st and 2nd semesters he/she does not complete the non-credit (NC) requirement of NCC, NSO, and NSS. 
•	This requirement should be completed in one year. If, however, a student is not able to complete this requirement in the first year, he/she must complete it by the end of the 2nd year (4th semester), otherwise he/she will not be allowed to register for any course until he/she completes this mandatory requirement. 
 
3.4.12 	Discipline 
i.	Every student is required to observe discipline and decorous behavior both inside and outside the institute campus and not to indulge in any activity, which will tend to bring down the prestige of this institute. 
ii.	Any act of indiscipline of a student reported to the Dean (Students Welfare) will be referred to the Institute Discipline and Welfare Committee constituted by the Senate, which will enquire into the charges and recommend suitable punishment if the charges are substantiated. 
iii.	Every student shall have to undertake 2-credits of discipline for award of BTech degree. The student shall be continuously evaluated for discipline during his/her entire period of enrolment. 
 
3.4.13 	Requirement of minimum credits to be earned for registration in higher semesters  
For 2012 Batch onwards: A student is required to earn a minimum 25 credits for registration in the 3rd semester, 50 credits for registration in 5th semester and minimum 75 credits for registration in 7th semester. 
 
3.4.14 	 Requirements to be fulfilled for BTech Degree  
       A student would be eligible to obtain BTech (Four Year) degree, if he/she  a. 	Earns prescribed number of credits in all 
b.	Obtains a minimum Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 5.0 
c.	Fulfills the requirements of all courses under different categories as prescribed in the syllabi 
d.	Completes the prescribed practical training satisfactorily 
e.	Fulfills the requirement of attending NCC/NSS/NSO activities in their first year or at best by the end of  second  year 
(fourth semester) satisfactorily 
f.	Must have earned pass grade in the discipline courses. 
g.	Maximum duration of degree course is 6 years. However additional extension of one semester may be allowed by the chairman BOAC on the recommendations of the Head of the concerned department. 
 
3.4.15 	Slow Pace Scheme Identification of students: 
a)	After the completion of 1st year the students who failed to clear 60% of total 1st year credits. 
b)	If the student after repetition of 1st year courses failed to clear 60% of credits again at the end of 2nd year of their study at NITJ, they have to join the slow pace program. 
Courses to be offered per semester to slow pace programmes students: 
a)	Maximum 4 no of theory courses or min 3 number of theory courses can be allowed to register in a semester. 
b)	Maximum 4 no of practical courses can be allowed to register in a semester. 
c)	Total registered credits per semester should not be more than 20. Duration: 
Maximum time duration to be allowed to the students to complete the BTech degree in slow pace programmes shall be eight years from the date of admission. Certificates (DMC & Degree) 
The DMC of these types of candidates will bear the tag of “Slow Pace” and BTech certificate will be the same as that of the regular candidates. 
 
3.4.16 	Power to Modify 
Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the Senate has the right to modify any of the above regulations from time to time. For any ambiguity of clarification, the decision of the Chairman, Senate will be final. 
 
Admission to MTech :
Admission to MTech (Full Time) programmes to candidates/students is conducted centrally through CCMT as per the directions of MHRD. The admission is based strictly on the merit as per GATE scores. 
 
4.1 	Registration: MTech (Full Time) 
 
1.	Every student will enroll and register for the courses he/she intends to undergo during the first semester, of MTech programme on a pre-specified date notified for the purpose. 
2.	In case of subsequent semesters, the registration for the courses will be done on a specified date/dates before the end semester examination of the previous semester. In this connection, there may be proper registration card, which will contain details of the core and elective courses, seminars and dissertation work to be taken up in the semester along with the number of credits for each course/seminar/project work.  
3.	During the 4th semester, students will normally be registered only for the dissertation work and not for theory courses. In case a student is short of a few credits required for the MTech degree, he/she may be permitted by the Chairman, BOAC to register for one or two courses along with Project under the clear recommendations from the concerned head of the department. However, the teaching assistantship wherever applicable will be paid only for a maximum duration of four semesters. 
4.	Late registration will be allowed with a late fee of Rs.500/- up to one week beyond the last date specified for the registration. However under special circumstances, the period may be relaxed by the Dean, Academic Programmes. 
5.	From 2nd semester onwards, all MTech students are required to enroll on a specified date at the beginning of a semester. A student will become eligible for enrollment only if, in addition to satisfying all the academic requirements, he/she has cleared all dues to the institute, hostel, library, etc., up to the end of the previous semesters and he/she has not been debarred from enrollment by the institute discipline committee. At the time of enrollment, a student can drop a course for which he/she was registered earlier and opt for another course with the consent of all faculty advisors and on valid grounds. 
6.	Withdrawal from course, in which a student is earlier registered, is permissible up to two weeks from the date of commencement of the semester. However, its substitution by another course is not permitted. The number of courses after, withdrawal should enable the students to earn the necessary credits to continue his/her studies. 
7.	In case the withdrawal has been from the list of core courses, the student will have to register for these courses when offered next. 
8.	A student may be allowed by Chairman, BOAC to withdraw from a semester completely under extra ordinary circumstances e.g. medical grounds. However, withdrawal from a semester will be allowed only for a maximum continuous period of two semesters. 
 
4.2 	Regulations of MTech (Full Time) Programme  
 
1. 	Eligibility Criteria for Admission 
1.1 Candidates who have been awarded Bachelor’s Degree in Engineering/Technology from a recognized university with a valid GATE score or Master’s Degree in appropriate branch of Sciences with a first class or minimum 60% marks (CGPA 6.5) or equivalent and a valid GATE score or UGC/CSIR fellowship are eligible to apply for admission to  MTech programme of the institute. However, if the seats remain vacant after admitting GATE qualified candidates, candidates without GATE score may be considered for the purpose of admission. However, such candidates will have to qualify the entrance test conducted by the institute. 
1.2 Candidates sponsored by UGC/AICTE approved technical institutes having same academic qualifications as required at serial no.1.1 and preferably two years’ experience of full time job are eligible to apply for  MTech programme. A valid GATE score or UGC/CSIR fellowship is not required. However, such candidates will have to qualify the entrance test conducted by the institute. 
1.3 Candidates sponsored by industries/R&D organizations/national laboratories having academic qualifications as in 1.1 with preferably two years of experience are eligible to apply for the MTech programme. However, a valid GATE score or UGC/CSIR fellowship is not required. However, such candidates will have to qualify the entrance test conducted by the institute. 
1.4 For a foreign national candidate who applies through Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India, or Indian Council of Cultural Relation, Govt. of India, are eligible to apply provided that they possess the same minimum academic qualifications. 
1.5 All in-service candidates must have to submit No Objection Certificate of their employers. 
 
2. 	Admission 
2.1 Applications on prescribed format will be invited once in a year through advertisement in the national dailies media and on institute’s website. 
2.2 The Board of Governors of the Institute on the recommendations   of the Institute Senate will decide on the number of seats for various Departments/Centres/Specializations.  The reservations of seats for SC/ST candidates will be as per the Govt. of India norms provided the SC/ST candidates have valid GATE score and satisfy other Senate requirements. 
2.3 The BOAC will decide on the operational aspects including selection of candidates, the academic calendar and other regular activities regarding the conduct of the programme. If there are any vacancies after the admission date is over, the filling of such vacancies will be decided by the Chairman of the Senate.   
2.4 Regarding all matters concerning selection of candidates, the decision of the Senate Chairman or his nominee, viz; Chairman, BOAC will be final. 
2.5 The selected candidates should satisfy all other admission requirements   stipulated in the letter of offer of admission and only then they will be admitted to MTech programme after payment of the prescribed fee and other charges.  If at any subsequent time, it is found that the candidates do not fulfill any of the stipulated requirements, the Chairman, BOAC may revoke his/her admission to the programme, with the approval of the Director. 3. Programme Structure 
3.1 Each stream of  MTech programme will have the following components:  
i.	Core courses (theory), practical and seminar/independent study 
ii.	Elective courses 
iii.	Dissertation work 
3.2	In addition, the MTech students may be required to give one or more seminars and undergo industrial/practical training as per the requirements of the programme. 
3.3	Each regular MTech programme will be completed in four semesters.  During each MTech semester, the student will register for course work and/or dissertation work as specified by the institute Senate for each programme.  The curriculum 
 
for different courses should be drawn up so that minimum number of credits for successful completion of any MTech programme is not less than 60. 
3.4	Each MTech student will be required to register for all the core courses specified in the curriculum of his programme of studies and he/she will have to successfully complete all the core courses. 
3.5	Each MTech student will have to register for elective courses offered by the department in that particular semester from the list of courses approved by the institute senate.   However, a student may be permitted selection of electives other than those listed by the departments provided these have relevance to the area of specialization. 
3.6	In certain specialized MTech programmes, a student may be permitted to register for a maximum of two B Tech courses. Such courses will be identified by the concerned department with a prior approval of the institute Senate. 
3.7	Each course will be assigned credits as follows; 
i. 	One credit for each lecture period. ii. 	One credit for each tutorial period. iii. 	One credit for each laboratory session of two or three hours. iv. 	Credits for seminars, industrial/practical training will be as per the curriculum approved by the institute senate. v. 	 
	4. 	Registration 
4.1 Every student will enroll and register for the courses he/she intends to undergo during the first semester of MTech programme on a pre-specified date notified for the purpose. 
4.2 In case of subsequent semesters, the registration for the courses will be done on a specified date/dates   before the end semester examination of the previous semester.  In this connection, there may be proper registration card, which will contain details of the core and elective courses, seminars, and dissertation work to be taken up in the semester along with the number of credits for each course/seminar/project work. 
4.3 During the 4th semester, students will normally be registered only for the dissertation work and not for theory courses.  In case a student is short of a few credits required for the MTech degree, he/she may be permitted by the Chairman, BOAC to register for one or two courses along with project under the clear recommendations from the concerned head of the department. However, the teaching assistantship wherever applicable will be paid only for a maximum duration of four semesters. 
4.4 Late registration will be allowed with a late fee of Rs.500/- up to one week beyond the last date specified for the registration. However under special circumstances, the period may be relaxed by the Dean, Academic Programmes. 
4.5 From 2nd semester onwards, all MTech students are required to enroll on a specified date at the beginning of a semester.  A student will become eligible for enrollment only if, in addition to satisfying all the academic requirements, he/she has cleared all dues to the institute, hostel, library, etc., up to the end of the previous semesters and he/she has not been debarred from enrollment by the institute discipline committee.  At the time of enrollment, a student can drop a course for which he/she was registered earlier and opt for another course with the consent of all faculty advisors and on valid grounds. 
4.6 Withdrawal from course, in which a student is earlier registered, is permissible up to two weeks from the date of commencement of the semester.  However, its substitution by another course is not permitted.  The number of courses after withdrawal should enable the student to earn the necessary credits to continue his/her studies. 
4.7 In case the withdrawal has been from the list of core courses, the student will have to register for these courses when offered next. 
4.8 A student may be allowed by Chairman, BOAC to withdraw from a semester completely under extra-ordinary circumstances (e.g. medical grounds). However, withdrawal from a semester will be allowed only for a maximum continuous period of two semesters. 
 
	5. 	Faculty Adviser 
 To render general advice to the students in connection with the academic programmes and to help them in planning the courses of study, the admitting department/centre will assign a group of students to a faculty member, to be called the faculty adviser, of the department/ centre. 
 
	6. 	Maximum Duration of the Programme 
6.1 Minimum duration of the MTech programme for regular candidates shall be four semesters. 
6.2 The students who do not complete their dissertation work upto the end of 4th semester and are permitted to submit the report on the subsequent date; next date of successful completion of the dissertation work will be mentioned in the grade card.  
6.3 An MTech student will be allowed to submit the dissertation regarding the project work, only if he has appeared in all the theory papers of the programme.  The result of the dissertation shall be declared after the candidate has passed all the theory papers and the seminars etc. 
6.4 In case the dissertation is rejected or the candidate is unable to complete the dissertation by the end of the 4th semester, he/she will be allowed to submit the same within three years from the date of admission in case of full-time candidates. Further extension beyond three years for full-time programme and beyond five years for part-time programme, but not exceeding six months, may be allowed by the Chairman, BOAC on the recommendations of the concerned project guide and head of the concerned department. 
 
 
 
	7. 	Minimum requirement to continue the programme 
7.1 A full time MTech student should earn minimum 12 successful credits in the first semester and 28 successful credits at the end of 2nd semester.  In case an MTech student does not satisfy these requirements, he/she will have to leave the programme. 
7.2 For continuation in the programme, an MTech student should have a minimum CGPA of 5.0.  While calculating the CGPA for eligibility to continue in the programme, only courses successfully completed up to the point under consideration by the concerned student will be taken into account.  If the CGPA of any student, calculated in this manner, falls below 5.0, the student will be issued a warning and in case he/she again obtain a CGPA less than 5.0 in the following semester, then  he/she will be disqualified of the programme. 
 
	8. 	Attendance Requirements 
8.1 The institute desires 100% attendance with a provision for consideration for absence on account of late registration, sickness or other such contingencies. The attendance requirements of 75% of the scheduled classes in course are needed for appearing in the examination. 
8.2 A student with less than 75% attendance in a course during a semester will be awarded ‘W’ grade in that course irrespective of his/her performance in the tests. The course coordinator, while awarding the grades, will take into account the consolidated attendance record for the whole semester. 
8.3 In order to maintain the attendance record of a particular course, a roll call will be taken in every scheduled lecture. 
8.4 The course coordinator will consolidate the attendance record for the course form the beginning of the semester up to class test - I and class test - II and also up to the end of the semester.  The teacher offering the course shall notify the students having less than 75% attendance with an intimation of the same to the same to concerned HOD and Deputy Registrar (Academics). 
8.5 Every faculty offering a course will take attendance till three calendar days before the last instruction day in the semester. The percentage of attendance, calculated up to this instruction day, will be indicated in code number/letter as follows: 
 
Attendance rounded to 	Code No/letter 
95% and above 	H 
85% to 94% 	9 
75% to 84% 	8 
Below 75% 	L 
A student who has attendance code letter L will not be allowed to sit for end semester examination in the course in which the short fall exists. 
 
	9. 	Dissertation Work 
9.1 Allocation of Dissertation:  The broad areas in which MTech dissertation work is feasible will be displayed by the concerned HOD on the notice board. The minimum qualification of a faculty member for MTech supervisory work shall be Ph.D or MTech with 5 years teaching/research experience. The students will be asked to submit at least three preferences to the HOD.  The HOD in consultation with associated faculty members will allocate the candidates to the faculty members.  If the type of work is interdisciplinary in nature, a maximum of two dissertation guides may be allowed.  The above allocation of MTech thesis topics should be completed by the end of the second semester. 
 
9.2 a. Submission of dissertation: 
i.	The candidate is required to submit three copies of M Tech thesis (spiral bound) to the Office of concerned HOD through his/her supervisor(s). 
ii.	The candidate will submit a certificate from his/her research supervisor stating that the research work undertaken has been original and has not been published/printed anywhere else for the award of any degree. 
iii.	A certificate from the Accounts Section of the institute stating ‘no dues pending’ against candidate will also be submitted along with the thesis. 
iv.	HoD will forward the list of all eligible candidates along with the proposed list of Examiners (Minimum six names) to the office of Dean (Academic) cum Chairman BOAC within three working days of the last date of submission of Thesis/Dissertation. 
	b. 	Evaluation of Dissertation: The credit allotment will be based accordance to the following weightage. 
 
First presentation 	20% 
Second presentation (pre submission) 	20% 
Thesis evaluation by external examiner 	30% 
Viva voce Examination 	30% 
 
First and second presentation shall be made towards the end of third and fourth semester, respectively. During first and second presentation, the candidate will be jointly evaluated by HOD/nominee and the candidate’s dissertation guide. The thesis examination shall be conducted in open public defence. If a candidate is found unsuitable, he/she can appear again in the next semester provided the final submission should be within three years. 
 
9.3 Panel of examiners for viva-voce examination: 
1.	Internal Examiner – dissertation guide 
2.	External Examiner– To be appointed by the Chairman, BOAC from a panel of Six examiners submitted by the dissertation guide through the Head of the Department to the Chairman, BOAC. 
3.	Head of the concerned Department. 
9.4 The candidate shall prepare his/her dissertation under the supervision of the concerned faculty at the Institute. If however, the HOD is convinced that facilities for carrying out the work exist elsewhere (recognized by NIT, Jalandhar) the candidate may be deputed by Chairman, BOAC to some other Institute/Organization after the recommendation of the concerned guide and Head of the Department. 
9.5 In case the dissertation supervisor leaves the Institute and joins some other Institution or some R & D organization, he/she may continue to guide the research work of the candidate registered with him/her provided he/she has guided the candidate for minimum period of 6 months.  Further in case of any dispute between the candidate and guide, the case will be referred to Chairman, BOAC for necessary action. 
9.6 The dissertation shall present an orderly and critical exposition of the existing knowledge of the subject or shall embody results of original investigation and shall demonstrate the capability of the candidate to do independent research work. 
9.7 Thesis write up: - The dissertation should be written in English in specific format. It should include the following; a) Abstract 
b)	Introduction and objectives 
c)	Literature review 
d)	Experimental/Theoretical work 
e)	Results and discussions 
f)	Conclusions 
g)	References 
Further following guidelines should be followed: 
 
	The dissertation should be typed 1.5 spaced, on both sides of the paper, of approximately 200 x 250 mm or A4 size, leaving 40 mm margin on the left-hand side. Six copies of the dissertation, with all photographs and illustrations are to be submitted. 
	Headings of sub-divisions of the text should be in lower case capitals, left aligned and bold. Sub-headings should be in lower case capitals and placed immediately next to the margin and the text should start from the next line.  Further, sub-heading should be lower case capitalized first letter only and placed next to the margin with colon. The matter would be in continuation of sub-heading. 
	All symbols should be defined wherever they first appear and confirm to the internationally accepted symbols. 
	Tables should also be typed on paper size 200 x 250 mm. These should be numbered serially with the work Table towards the left margin followed by title at the top of the table. Figure captions should be provided at the bottom of the figure. 
	References cited in the text should be indicated by the author’s name and the year of publication in parenthesis. They should not be numbered and should be typed at the end of the paper in the alphabetical order. The title of the work referred to should be within inverted commas. References should be given in the following form; 
(a)	Kawabata S (1996) “Micro-measurement of the mechanical Properties of Single Fibre” in “Modern Textile Characterization Methods”, Ed.,Mastura Raheel, Marcel Dekker, Inc.,pp.311-328. 
(b)	Terzaghi K (1943), “Theoretical Soil Mechanics”, John Wiley and Sons, Inc, New York, 210 
(c)	Terzaghi K (1943), “Critical Height and Factor of Safety of Slopes against Sliding”, Proc.Ist Int.Conf.Mech. and Foundation Engineering Vol.1, pp.156-161. 
(d)	Terzaghi K and Lacroix Y (1964), “Mission Dam: An Earth and Rock-fill Dam on Highly Compressible Foundation”, Geotechnique, Vol.No.1, pp.13-50. 
 
	1. 	Academic System  
 The academic system at NIT Jalandhar is framed on credit-based semester examination system. The credit system envisages a continuous evaluation of student’s performance, and provides flexibility for academic progress at an optimum pace based on individual ability and convenience, subject to the constraint of the minimum requirements for continuation in the academic programme. 
 The student is awarded a letter grade from the prescribed grading system in each course registered by him.  For each pass grade, the students accumulate the course credits as earned credits. The academic performance of the student is indicated in terms of the number of credits that he/she earns and the weighted grade point average. A specified minimum number of credits should be acquired on semester or session basis in order to qualify for continuation the academic programme and for the award of MTech degree. Grades: 
 The grading system, the evaluation in terms of marks is replaced by the award of letter grades. The structure and guidelines for award of grades are given as under: 
 
 
Grade 	Points 	Description of performance 	Recommended cut off  Marks   * 
S 	10 	Outstanding 	90 
A 	09 	Excellent 	80 
B 	08 	Very Good Good 	70 
C 	07 	Good 	60 
D 	06 	Average 	50 
E 	04 	Marginal 	40 
U 	- 	Unsuccessful 	- 
I 	- 	Incomplete 	- 
W 	- 	Withheld due to shortage of attendance or withdrawal 	- 
NP 	- 	Audit Pass 	- 
NF 	- 	Audit Fail 	- 
 
Subject to confirmation based on standard deviation, if the sample size is greater than 20, and is flexible to the recommendations of the individual course coordinators with proper justification.  
 
 The grades will be awarded to a student in each registered course, based on his/her performance evaluated through a prescribed scheme of evaluation. In theory courses, the evaluation is weighted on class tests, assignment and end semester examinations in prescribed proportions. The recommended weight- age for class tests is 40%, for assignments 10% and for end semester’s examination is 50%. The credits for the courses in which a student has obtained “E” (minimum passing grade for a course) or a higher grade will be considered as credits earned by him/her.  In addition, courses up to a maximum of 8 credits in case of B Tech students in which a student has got ‘NP’ grade will not be counted towards his/her earned credits. 
 For the other (elective) course in which U or W grade have been obtained, the student may take the same course or any other course from the same category when it is offered next. Further, ‘U’ grades secured in any course stay permanently on the grade card. The weightage of these grades is not counted in the calculation of the SGPA and CGPA. 
 	An ‘I’ grade denotes incomplete performance in any course due to absence at the end of semester. Upon completion of all course requirements, the “I’ grade is converted to a regular grade. 
 These grades (NP and NF) are awarded in a course that the student opts to audit. Audit applications are allowed during the first four weeks of a semester. The audit pass (NP) grade is awarded if a minimum ‘E’ grade is obtained in the course and attendance is above 75% in the classes.  If either of these requirements is not fulfilled he audit fail (NF) grade is awarded. In courses, where NP grade is obtained, the corresponding course credits are considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 
 	A ‘W’ grade is awarded in a course where the student has opted of withdraw from the course. Withdrawal from a course is permitted until one week after the class test-I. 
 
Grade Point Averages: 
 The performance of a student will be evaluated in terms of two indicates, viz, the semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for a Semester and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for all the completed semesters at any point of time.  The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses, registered for in the semester. 
 	 
  
 
The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades, except audit courses, obtained in all completed semesters. 
 
  
 
	2. 	Leave Rules for Full-Time Students 
11.1 All MTech students would apply to the concerned HOD for leave stating the reasons whenever they are not in a position to attend the classes/work related to dissertation.  They will not be allowed to avail an unauthorized leave even if they have fully utilized the permissible leave. 
11.2 All MTech students are eligible for leave of 30 days in a year (15 days per semester). The intervening holidays will be treated as a part of leave with provision of suffixing and prefixing holidays.  In no way the leave rules would affect the attendance requirements for  MTech students. 
11.3 All M Tech students shall be eligible to leave station for visiting other places preferably after completion of their course work or during vacations when there is no teaching work scheduled, if recommended by Supervisor(s) and HOD, and approved by Dean Research and Industrial Liaison well in advance for various purposes, e.g. library consultation, meeting experts, presentation of research papers/participation in the conferences/short term courses/symposiums etc., getting samples tested from other laboratories, using the lab facilities elsewhere if the same is not available at NIT Jalandhar, interaction with the External Supervisor, and any other similar purpose as recommended by his/her Supervisor(s) and HOD. For these purposes, he/she shall be permitted for 30 days per year. The leave as mentioned at Clause 11.2 shall be in addition. 
 
 
 
	3. 	Discipline 
Every MTech student is required to observe proper discipline and decorous behaviour both inside and outside the campus. He/she should not indulge in any activity, which will tend to lower the prestige of the institute. 
Any act of indiscipline on the part of MTech student, which is reported to Chairman, BOAC will be referred to the Discipline Committee of the Senate from time to time.  The Committee will investigate the charges.   If the charges are substantiated, it will   recommend suitable punishment for the same to the Director.  The decision of the Director will be final in this regard. 
 
	4. 	Project work in Industry or R & D works 
The students may also opt to carry out their dissertation work in industry (having R & D facilities) and R&D organizations (like national research laboratories, etc.) during the final semester, subject to the following condition: 
“A committee constituted by the Chairman, BOAC on the recommendations of the Head of the Department shall examine all such request and will give the approval.” The students who are allowed to do the dissertation in the industry/R & D organizations will have to pay tuition fee and other charges to the institute for 4th semester also. 
 
	5. 	Award of MTech Degree  
An MTech student will be eligible for the award of MTech degree 
b)	if he/she has successfully completed all the core courses/elective courses, dissertation work and  any other requirement of the curriculum as required  by the institute Senate. 
c)	If he/she has earned the required credits as applicable to the respective batch and approved by the Institute’s Senate. 
d)	If he/she has obtained a minimum CGPA of 6.0 in the entire course. 
e)	If he/she has paid all the institute dues including hostel dues, library dues, etc. 
f)	No disciplinary action is pending against him/her. 
The award of MTech degree will be approved by the Board of Governors of the institute on the recommendations of the institute Senate. 
15.   Stipend cum Teaching Assistantship 
MTech full time students may be awarded scholarship-cum-teaching assistantship as per the guidelines of Ministry of HRD, Govt. of India
Admission to MTech(part time) :
No admission for this year 
	1. 	Maximum Duration of the Programme 
1.1 Minimum duration of the MTech programme for part-time candidates shall be seven semesters. 
1.2 The students who do not complete their dissertation work up upto the end of 7th semester and are permitted to submit the report on the subsequent date; next date of their successful completion of the dissertation work will be mentioned in the grade card.  
1.3 In case the dissertation is rejected or the candidate is unable to complete the dissertation by the end of the 7th semester, he/she will be allowed to submit the same within five years from the date of admission. Further extension beyond five years for part-time programme, but not exceeding six months, may be allowed by the Chairman, BOAC on the recommendations of the concerned project guide and head of the concerned department. 
	2. 	Minimum requirement to continue the programme 
 A candidate must earn minimum 50 % of the prescribed credits by the end of 2nd semester and 50 % of the prescribed credits at the end of fourth semester. In case an MTech student does not satisfy these requirements, he/she will have to leave the programme. 
 	These regulations have been given effect to all the candidates enrolled since the commencement of the programme. 
Power to Modify 
	 	Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the Senate can modify any of the above regulation from time to time
Admission to MSc programme: 

6.1 Master of Science (MSc) requirement 
From the year 2015-16 admission to MSc (Full Time) programmes will be based upon IIT-JAM score card and are admitted centrally by CCMN as per directions of MHRD. 
 
6.2 Regulations for Master of Science (M.Sc.) Programme 
 
	1. 	Eligibility Criteria for Admission 
 
1.1 A candidate who has passed the examination for the award of Bachelor’s degree from a recognized university, in the concerned discipline as one of the major subjects at Bachelor’s level, with first class or minimum 60% marks or equivalent are eligible to apply for admission to M.Sc. Programme of the Institute. For admission to M.Sc. Programme in the discipline of Physics, candidates must have taken Mathematics as of one of the subjects at Bachelor’s level. 
 
1.2 Foreign national candidates who apply through Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India, or Indian Council of Cultural Relations, Govt. of India, are eligible to apply provided that they possess the same minimum qualifications as given in 1.1. 
2.     Admission 
2.1 Applications on prescribed format will be invited once in a year through advertisement in the national dailies media and on institute’s website.  
2.2 The Board of Governors of the Institute on the recommendations of the Institute Senate will decide on the number of seats for various Departments/Centres/specializations. The reservations of seats for SC/ST candidates will be as per the Govt. of India norms. 
2.3 The BOAC will recommend to the Chairman Senate regarding the operational aspects of the Programme including selection of candidates, the academic calendar and other regular activities regarding the conduct of the programme.  If there are any vacancies after the admission date is over, the filling of such vacancies will be decided by the Chairman of the Senate. 
2.4 Regarding all matters concerning selection of candidates, the decision of the Chairman Senate or his nominee will be final. 
2.5  The selected candidates should satisfy all other admission requirements stipulated in the letter of offer of admission and only then they will be admitted to M.Sc. Programmes after payment of the prescribed fee and other charges.  If at any subsequent time, it is found that the candidates do not fulfill any of the stipulated requirements, the BOAC may revoke his/her admission to the programme, with the approval of the Director. 
 
	3. 	Programme Structure 
3.1 Each stream of M.Sc. Programme will have the following components: 
i.	Core courses (Theory), practical and seminar/independent study 
ii.	Elective courses 
iii.	Project work 
In addition, the M.Sc. students may be required to give one or more seminars as per the requirements of the programme. 
3.2	M.Sc. Programme will be completed in four semesters.  During each M.Sc Semester, the student will register for course work and/or Project work as specified by the Institute Senate for each programme.  The curriculum for different courses should be drawn up so that minimum number of credits for successful completion of any M.Sc. Programme is not less than 90. 
3.3	Each M.Sc. student will be required to register for all the core courses specified in the curriculum of his programme of studies.  
3.4	Each M.Sc. student will have to register for elective courses offered by the department in that particular semester from the list of courses approved by the Institute Senate.  However, a student may be permitted selection of electives other than those listed by the Departments provided these have relevance to the area of specialization.  
3.5	Candidates will have to successfully complete all the core courses (including laboratory. courses), elective courses, and project work appropriate as per the teaching scheme. 
3.6	Each course will be assigned credits as follows: 
i. 	One credit for each lecture period. ii. 	One credit for each tutorial period. iii. 	One credit for each laboratory session of two or three hours. 
	iv. 	Credits for seminars and Project will be as per the curriculum approved by the Institute Senate. 
	4. 	Registration 
4.1 Every student will enroll and register for the courses he/she intends to undergo during the first semester of M.Sc. Programme on a pre-specified date notified for the purpose. 
4.2 In case of subsequent semesters, the registration for the courses will be done on a specified date/dates before the end semester examination of the previous semester.  In this connection, there may be proper registration card, which will contain details of the core and elective courses, seminars, and Project work to be taken up in the semester along with the number of credits for each course/seminar/project work. 
4.3 During the 3rd or 4th semester, students will register for the Project work in addition to theory and laboratory courses. 
4.4 Late registration will be allowed with a late fee of Rs.500/- up to one week beyond the last date specified for the registration. However under special circumstances, the period may be relaxed by the Dean, Academic Programmes. 
4.5 A student will become eligible for enrollment only if, in addition to satisfying all the academic requirements, he/she has cleared all dues to the Institute, hostel, library, etc., up to the end of the previous semesters and he/she has not been debarred from enrollment by the institute discipline committee. 
4.6 A student may be allowed by Chairman, BOAC to withdraw from a semester completely under extra-ordinary circumstances (e.g. medical grounds). However, withdrawal from a semester will be allowed only for a maximum continuous period of two semesters. 
 
5. 	Faculty Adviser 
To render general advice to the students in connection with the academic programmes and to help them in planning the courses of study, the respective department/center will assign a group of students to a faculty member, to be called the faculty adviser, of the department/center. 
 
 
6. 	Maximum Duration of the Programme 
6.1 Minimum duration of M.Sc programme for regular candidates shall be four semesters. 
6.2 For the students who do not complete their project work up to the end of 4th semester and are permitted to submit the report on the subsequent date, next date of completion of the project work and the next date of viva-voce examination will be mentioned in the grade card. 
6.3 An M.Sc. student will be allowed to submit the Project report regarding the project work, only if he has appeared in the theory papers up to the 4th semester examination.  The result of the Project work shall be declared after the candidate has passed all the theory paper and the seminars. 
6.4 In case the Project is rejected or the candidate is unable to complete the Project by the end of the 4th semester, he/she will be allowed to submit the same within three years from the date of admission.  
 
	7. 	Minimum requirement to continue the programme 
7.1 An M.Sc student should successfully pass the 50% of the prescribed credits with CPGA not less than 5.0 at the end of 2nd semester. In case a M.Sc. student does not satisfy these requirements, he/she will have to leave the programmme. 
 
	8. 	Attendance Requirements 
8.1 The Institute desires 100% attendance with a provision for consideration for absence on account of late registration, sickness or other such contingencies.  The attendance requirements of 75% of the scheduled classes in course are needed for appearing in the examination. 
8.2 A student with less than 75% attendance in a course during a semester will be awarded ‘W’ grade in that course irrespective of his/her performance in the tests. The course coordinator, while awarding the grades, will take into account the consolidated attendance record for the whole semester. 
8.3 In order to maintain the attendance record of a particular course, a roll call will be taken in every scheduled lecture. 
8.4 The course coordinator will consolidate the attendance record for the course from the beginning of the semester up to class test-I and class test-II and also up to the end of the semester.  The teacher offering the course shall notify the students having less than 75% attendance with an intimation of the same to the concerned HOD and Deputy Registrar (Academics). 
8.5 Every faculty offering a course will take attendance till three calendar days before the last instruction day in the semester.  The percentage of attendance, calculated up to this instruction day, will be indicated in code number/letter as follows: 
 
Attendance rounded to 	Code No/letter 
95% and above 	H 
85% to 94% 	9 
75% to 84% 	8 
Below 75% 	L 
 
 	A student who has attendance code letter L will not be allowed to sit for end semester examination in the course in which the short fall exists. 
 
	9. 	Project Work 
 
Allocation of Project: The broad areas in which M.Sc. Project work is feasible will be displayed by the concerned HOD on the notice board.    The students will be asked to submit at least three preferences to the Head of the Department.  The Head of the Department will allocate the candidates to the faculty members.  If the type of work is interdisciplinary in nature, a maximum of two Project guides may be allowed. The allocation of M.Sc. project work should be completed by the end of the third semester.
Project Report & write up: The Project report should be written in English in a specific format.  It should include the following: 
 
a.	Abstract 
b.	Introduction 
c.	Literature review 
d.	Experimental/Theoretical work 
e.	Result and discussions 
f.	Conclusions 
g.	References 
 
Further following guidelines should be followed: 
 
	The Project should be typed 1.5 spaced, on both sides of the paper, of approximately 200 x 250 mm or A4 size, leaving 40 mm margin on the left-hand side.  Six copies of the Project, with all photographs and illustrations are to be submitted. 
	Headings of sub-divisions of the text should be in lower case capitals, left aligned and bold.  Sub-headings should be in lower case capitals and placed immediately next to the margin and the text should start from the next line.  Further, subheading should be lower case capitalized first letter only and placed next to the margin with colon.  The matter would be in continuation of sub-heading. 
	All symbols should be defined wherever they first appear and confirm to the internationally accepted symbols. 
	Tables should also be typed on paper size 200 x 250 mm. These should be numbered serially with the work table towards the left margin followed by title at the top of the table. Figure captions should be provided at the bottom of the figure. 
	References cited in the text should be indicated by the author’s name and the year of publication in parenthesis.  They should be numbered and typed at the end of the paper in the alphabetical order.  The title of the work referred to should be within inverted commas.  References should be given in the following form: 
 
[1]	Kawabata S (1996) “Micro-measurement of the mechanical of Single Fibre” in “Modern Textile Characterization Methods”, Ed., Mastura   Raheel, Marcel Dekker, Inc., pp. 311-328. 
[2]	Singh A and Singh T (1991),“ Nonlinear Interaction of RIPPLED LASER beam with unmagnetized plasma”, in “Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion”, IOP Publishing Ltd. and Pergamon Press, Great Britain, vol. 33, No.2, pp. 123-133. 
[3]	Terzaghi K (1943), “Theoretical Soil Mechanics”, John Wiley and Sons, Inc, New York, 210. 
[4]	Terzaghi K (1943), “Critical Height and Factor of Safety of Slopes against Sliding”, Proc. 1st Int. Conf. Mech. and Foundation Engineering Vol.1, pp. 156-161. 
[5]	Terzaghi K and Lacroix Y (1964), “Mission Dam: An Earth and Rock-fill Dam on Highly Compressible Foundation”, Geotechnique, Vol. No.1, pp. 13050. 
[6]	Chately P K and Sharma A (1982), “Weak radiative decays of hyperous and charmed baryons in a quarks model,” Physical Rev. D 25, 2351  
 	 
10. Academic System 
The academic system at NIT Jalandhar is framed on credit-based semester examination system.  The credit system envisages a continuous evaluation of student’s performance, and provides flexibility for academic progress at an optimum pace based on individual ability and convenience, subject to the constraint of the minimum requirements for continuation in the academic programme. 
The student is awarded a letter grade from the prescribed grading system I each course registered by him.  For each pass grade, the students accumulate the course credits as earned credits.  The academic performance of the student is indicated in terms of the number of credits that he/she earns and the weighted grade point average.  A specified number of credits that he/she earns and the weighted grade point average.  A specified minimum number of credits should be acquired on semester or session basis in order to qualify for continuation the academic programme and for the award of M.Sc. degree. 
Grades 
The grading system, the evaluation in terms of marks is replaced by the award of letter grades.  The structure and guidelines for award of grades are given as under: 
 
Grade 	Point 	Description of performance 	Recommended cut off Marks*  
S 	10 	Outstanding 	90 
A 	09 	Excellent 	80 
B 	08 	Very Good 	70 
C 	07 	Good 	60 
D 	06 	Average 	50 
E 	04 	Marginal 	40 
U 	- 	Unsuccessful 	- 
I 	- 	Incomplete 	- 
W 	- 	Withheld due to shortage of attendance or withdrawal 	- 
NP 	- 	Audit Pass 	- 
NF 	- 	Audit Fail 	- 
 
*Subject to confirmation based on standard deviation, if the sample size is greater than 20, and is flexible to the recommendations of the individual course coordinators with proper justification. 
The grades will be awarded to a student in each registered course, based on his/her performances evaluated through a prescribed scheme of evaluation.  In theory courses, the evaluation is weighted on class tests, assignment and end semester examinations in prescribed proportions.  The recommended weightage for class tests is 40%, for assignments 10% and for end semester’s examination is 50%. The credits for the course in which a student has obtained “E” (minimum passing grade for a course) or a higher grade will be considered as credits earned by him/her.  For the other (elective) course in which U or W grade have been obtained, the student may take the same course or any other course from the same category when it is offered next.  Further, ‘U’ grade secured in any course stay permanently on the grade card.  The weightage of these grades is not counted in the calculation of the SGPA and CGPA. 
An ‘I’ grade denotes incomplete performance in any course due to absence at the end of semester. Upon completion of all course requirements, the ‘I’ grade is converted to a regular grade. 
These grades (NP and NF) are awarded in a course that the student opts to audit. Audit applications are allowed during the first four weeks of a semester.  The audit pass (NP) grade is awarded if a minimum ‘E’ grade is obtained in the course and attendance is above 75% in the classes.  If either of these requirements is not fulfilled the audit fail (NF) grade is awarded.  In courses, where NP grade is obtained, the corresponding course credits are considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA. 
W’ grade is awarded in a course where the student has opted to withdraw from the course.  Withdrawal from a course is permitted until one week after the class test-I. 
 
10.2       Grade Point Averages 
The performance of a student will be evaluated in terms of two indicates, viz, the Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for a semester and Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) which is the Grade Point Average for all the completed semesters at any point of time.  The SGPA is calculated on the basis of grades obtained in all courses, except audit courses, registered for in the semester. 
 
  
 
            The CGPA is calculated on the basis of all pass grades, except audit courses, obtained in all completed semesters. 
 
  
 
11. Discipline 
Every M.Sc. student is required to observe proper discipline and decorous behaviour both inside and outside the campus.  
He/she should not indulge in any activity,which will tend to lower the prestige of the institute. 
Any act of indiscipline on the part of M.Sc. student, which is reported to Chairman ACPGPR, will be referred to the Discipline Committee of the Senate from time to time.  The Committee will investigate the charges. If the charges are substantiated, it will recommend suitable punishment for the same to the Director.   
 
12. Award of M.Sc. Degree 
An M.Sc. student will be eligible for the award of M.Sc. degree 
(i)	If he/she has successfully completed all the core course /elective course, Project work and any other requirement of the curriculum as required by the institute Senate. 
(ii)	If he/she has earned the required credits as applicable on the respective batches and approved by the Institute’s Senate. 
(iii)	If he/she has obtained a minimum CGPA of 6.0 in the entire course. 
(iv)	If he/she has paid all the institute dues including hostel dues, library dues, etc. (v) No disciplinary action is pending against him/her. 
 
The award of M.Sc. degree will be approved by the Board of Governors of the institute on the recommendations of the institute Senate. 
 
These regulations have been given effect to all the candidates enrolled since the commencement of the programme. 
7.1 Regulations of MBA: 
An MBA student will be eligible for the award of MBA degree: 
i.	If he/she has successfully completed all the requirements of the curriculum as required by the Institute Senate. 
ii.	If he/she has obtained a minimum CGPA of 6.0 in the entire course. iii. 	If he/she has paid all the institute dues including hostel dues, library dues etc. iv. 	No disciplinary action is pending against him/her. 
	
Admission to PhD (Full time/Part time) programmes will be based upon performance of the candidates in the written test to be conducted by the institute and  the recommendations of a panel of experts before which the candidate(s) is required to make a presentation on a topic of his/her proposed area of research using power point presentation.  8.1 Regulations for the Admission to PhD Programme and Award of PhD Degree (Regular) 
(1)	Minimum Qualifications for Admission: 
1.1 PhD for Indian Nationals: 
 
Engineering Departments: Master’s Degree in Engineering/Technology in the relevant area of research along with Bachelor’s Degree in appropriate branch of Engineering/Technology with a first class or minimum 60% marks or equivalent Grade Point at Master’s and Bachelor’s level*. 
Sciences/Humanities/Management Departments: Master’s Degree in  appropriate branch of Science/ Humanities/Social Sciences/Management with a first class or minimum 60% marks or equivalent Grade Point*. 
*Relaxation in minimum Percentage/Equivalent Grade Point requirements will be given as per the National Reservation Policy of Govt. of India.  
1.2 PhD  for Foreign Nationals 
 Foreign national candidates, who apply through Ministry of Human Resource Development, Govt. of India, or Indian Council of Cultural Relations, Govt. of India, are eligible to apply provided that they possess the same minimum qualifications as given in 1.1. 
1.3 PhD  for Candidate/Staff working under Sponsored Projects: 
Candidate/staff working under the projects sponsored by MHRD/DST/UGC or some other government agency and coordinated by the institute faculty as Principal investigator/Coordinator shall be eligible for admission to PhD programme. However the candidate/staff should have the same academic qualifications as given in 1.1.  
	2. 	Admission Process 
 Applications on prescribed format for admission to PhD programme will be invited twice in a year through advertisement in the national dailies, media and on institute’s website.  The advertisement shall include the predetermined seats and as per the guidelines of reservation policy of Government of India. The person’s desires for applying in more than one department/category shall be required to apply on separate application form along with appropriate fee. The candidate shall be required to submit a write-up (1-2 pages) of his/her proposed area of research along with the application. 
 
2.1 Screening Committee: 
A Screening Committee will comprise of the Head of Department and three faculty members (co-opted by HoD from the department) holding PhD degree. The committee shall screen all applications for admission to PhD programme. The committee is expected to verify the eligibility of the applicant(s) for the Entrance Test/Interview based upon his/her details mentioned in the application(s) and the documents enclosed. After screening of all applications, the Head of Department shall forward the list of the eligible candidates to Deputy Registrar (Academic) with a copy to Dean (Academic). The Deputy Registrar (Academic) shall consolidate the list of all the departments and notify through appropriate means with the approval of Dean (Academic).    
 
2.2 Entrance Test: 
All the candidates to PhD Programme (Full Time/Part Time) shall be admitted through an Entrance Test followed by an interview to be organized by respective department as the case may be.  The Entrance Test will be of MCQ Mode.  The syllabus for the same will be notified on the Institute Website.  At the time of interview, candidates are expected to discuss their research interest/area of interest.    
 
2.3 Interview: 
Candidates, who secure 40% marks (minimum) in the Entrance Test, shall be called for interview. The preference shall be given to the UGC/CSIR/NET/GATE qualified candidates. 
2.4 Interview Committee 
 
 The eligible candidates who have qualified Entrance Test shall have to appear before an Interview Committee for an interview. The Interview Committee shall comprise of the following:  Director / Nominee 
1.	Dean (Academic) / Nominee 
2.	All faculty members of the concerned department (with PhD  	qualification) 
 
Keeping in view the available seats, the Interview Committee shall recommend the names of candidates found suitable for admission to PhD Programme for the approval of Chairman, Senate. The Deputy Registrar (Academic) shall notify the list of selected candidates through appropriate means. 
 
 
	3. 	Research Guidance 
 
3.1 PhD Supervisor: 
 A permanent faculty member of the institute with PhD qualification can act as a research supervisor. However, in case of demise/any other casualty, the “Research Scholar (RS)” registered under a supervisor(s) shall be transferred to other suitable supervisor(s) in the department subject to the approval of RAC. However It shall be the responsibility of the Head of the Department to bring the matter for the information of Chairman, RAC, to decide the future course of action for the candidate (s) registered with the Supervisor. In addition, if a supervisor(s) gets transferred/reemployed/avails deputation/lien in other department/ workplace/centre with in NIT, Jalandhar or retirement/resignation/ long leave of a supervisor(s) from the institute (more than 06 months)/lien/ deputation to join other institute then he/she shall continue supervising the RS in the department where RS is initially registered. In case the Supervisor is likely to be superannuated within five (5) years from the date of registration of a Research Scholar, he/she shall be allowed to act as supervisor if there is one more regular faculty member from the same department to act as other supervisor.  
 
3.2 Other Supervisor: 
 Depending upon the nature of the research problem, other supervisor(s) may be allowed in addition to the supervisor from the department where the RS is registered. In such case, maximum two other supervisors may be approved by RAC, out of which, one from the same/other department from NIT, Jalandhar, and second (in-service or retired) from an organization other than NIT, Jalandhar, preferably a centrally funded institution/ university/Research laboratory of Government of India/Public Sector undertakings/state funded University /institution. The consent (on the official letterhead) of the proposed supervisor(s) shall be forwarded to Dean (Academic) for consideration in the RAC. The RAC may recommend the other supervisors. The request for appointment of other supervisor(s) may be entertained within 18 months of the registration of the RS. 
 
3.3 Change of Supervisor: 
The request for change of supervisor(s) may be entertained within 18 months of the registration. Permission may be granted to a RS for the change of Research supervisor(s) by the RAC under exceptional circumstances. However, in such cases, the consent of both, i.e. approved Research supervisor and proposed (new) Research supervisor shall be essential. 
 
3.4 The number of RS with a ‘supervisor’ and/or ‘other supervisor’ shall not exceed eight at a time. Further, a faculty member can act as co-supervisor for research scholars registered with any other Institute/University after getting approval from the competent authority, provided the institute work does not suffer due to the same. 
 
	4. 	Admission 
Candidates, whose selection is recommended by the Interview Committee and approved by Chairman Senate, shall be offered admission and advised to deposit prescribed fee. After depositing the fee, he/she shall be designated as “Research Scholar (RS)”. For all purposes, the date of registration of a RS shall be the date on which he/she has deposited fee in the institute. After registration, Research Advisory Committees (RACs) for the individual RS shall be constituted by Dean (Academic) in consultation with the concerned HOD and Supervisor(s) as per Clause 10. After the constitution of the RACs, the first meeting shall be held within a month to approve the supervisor(s), broad area of Research and the courses of study for individual RS. 
 
	5. 	Registration 
The RS is required to follow the instructions given below for registration: 
1.	He/she is required to register himself/herself (in person) on the scheduled dates of registration (only). There shall not be any provision of deputing any representative by him/her for registration purposes. Further, he/she shall be required to register in subsequent semesters till the submission of PhD thesis. 
2.	He/she shall deposit the requisite fee at the time of registration in every semester.  
3.	He/she is required to fill the registration form and deposit it with the department through his/her supervisor(s).  
4.	He/she shall be allowed to register for the subsequent semester(s) if his/her progress report by his/her supervisor(s)/HOD during the previous semester(s) is found satisfactory. 
5.	The act of not-depositing the fee or not-completing the registration process as mentioned above on the scheduled dates 
shall be treated as the “voluntary discontinuation” of studies by the RS. In such case, he/she will cease to be a bonafide student with immediate effect. 
6.	The instructions as above for registration shall be applicable for all full-time and part-time Research Scholars. 
7	Late registration will be with a late fee of Rs.500/- up to one week beyond the last date specified for the registration. However under special circumstances, the period may be relaxed by the Dean (Academic). 
8	The candidate is required to follow the registration rules till he/she submits his/her PhD thesis. 
 
	6. 	Duration of PhD Programme 
The minimum period of residential requirement for study and research at the institute from the date of registration to the date of submission of thesis shall be 36 months. A candidate is normally expected to submit his/her thesis within five years from the date of registration. This period may be extended by the Senate as a special case to a maximum of seven years from the date of registration after which the registration shall stand cancelled.  
 
	7. 	Course Work 
7.1 Minimum Credit and CGPA requirements: 
 Every Internal/External Research Scholar (Full Time/Part Time) admitted under PhD Programme   is required to pass the theory courses approved by the RAC (for minimum 12 credits) securing CGPA=6.0 (minimum). The grading system similar to post-graduate programmes shall also be applicable to PhD Programme. 
 
7.2 Courses: 
 The course work must include one course of Research Methodology and rest of the courses may be taken as per the recommendations of RAC. Courses completed after the date of registration shall count towards the           requirement for the award of PhD degree.  
 
7.3 Attendance requirements: 
 The institute desires 100% attendance in the theory courses with a provision for consideration for absence due to unavoidable circumstances. The attendance requirements of 75% of the scheduled classes in a course are needed for appearing in the theory examination.  
 The course coordinator will consolidate the attendance record for the course from the beginning of the semester upto class test-I and class test-II and also up to the end of the semester. The teacher offering the course shall notify the students having less than 75% attendance with an intimation of the same to the concerned HOD. 
 	Every faculty offering a course will take attendance till three calendar days before the last instruction day in the semester. The percentage of attendance, calculated up to this instruction day, will be indicated in a code number/ letter as follows: 
 	 
Attendance rounded to 	Code No/letter 
95% and above 	H 
85% to 94% 	9 
75% to 84% 	8 
Below 75% 	L 
The RS who have attendance code letter L will not be allowed to sit for end semester examination in the course in which the short fall exists.  
 
	8. 	Leave Rules for Regular Candidates 
 
8.1 The RS is required apply to the concerned HOD for leave stating the reasons whenever they are not in a position to attend classes/perform thesis work.  
8.2  All RS are eligible for leave of 30 days in a year @ 15 days per semester. The intervening holidays will be treated as part of leave with provision of suffixing and prefixing holidays. In no way, the leave rules would affect the attendance requirements for the RS. 
8.3 All RS shall be allowed to leave station for visiting other places preferably after completion of their course work or during vacations when there is no teaching work scheduled, if recommended by Supervisor(s) and HOD, and approved by Dean Academic well in advance for various purposes like library consultation, meeting experts, presentation of research papers/participation in the conferences/short term courses/symposiums etc., getting samples tested from other laboratories, using the lab facilities elsewhere if the same is not available at NIT Jalandhar, interaction with the External Supervisor, and any other similar purpose as recommended by his/her Supervisor(s) and HOD. For these purposes, he/she shall be permitted for 60 days per year. The leave as mentioned at Clause 8.2 shall be in addition.  
8.4 Maternity Leave: The woman RS will be eligible for Maternity Leave with Assistantship as per Govt. of India notification released from time to time. 
 
	9. 	Discipline 
 
9.1 The RS is required to observe proper discipline and decorous behaviour both inside and outside the campus. He/She should not indulge in any activity, which will tend to lower the prestige of the institute. 
9.2 Any act of indiscipline on the part of RS, which is reported to Dean (Academic), will be referred to the Discipline Committee of the Senate from time to time. The Committee will investigate the charges.  If the charges are substantiated, it will recommend suitable punishment for the same to the Director. The decision of the Director will be final in this regard. 
 
	10. 	Research Advisory Committee (RAC) 
The RAC shall be constituted within one month of the registration of the research scholar. The head of the department shall prepare the case and will submit the same in the office of Dean Academic. 
 
10.1 Composition of Research Advisory Committee The following will be the composition of RAC: 
1.	Dean (Academic) (Ex-officio) (Chairman) 
2.	Head of the concerned Department (Member). 
3.	All approved PhD supervisors of the RS (Member(s)). 
4.	Subject expert(s) outside the institute to be nominated by the Chairman, Senate. The concerned supervisor(s) shall provide a list of three Subject Experts with their addresses, telephone numbers and     e-mail IDs (through Head of Department) to Dean (Academic) well in advance. 
 
10.2 Responsibilities of Research Advisory Committee The RACs will have the following responsibilities: 
1.	Confirmation of supervisor to the RS. 
2.	To monitor the performance of the RS. 
3.	To recommend the Courses of studies for the concerned RS. 
4.	To hold the comprehensive viva-voce examination of RS. 
 
11. Minimum Residential Requirements 
 
For a regular RS under scholarship/Project scheme, the minimum period of residential requirement for study and research at the institute from the date of registration to the date of submission of thesis shall be 36 months. During this residential requirement, the RS(s) shall report to his/her supervisor(s) from the department where he/she is registered. The RS is allowed to leave station to visit other libraries/ laboratories/industry etc. for consultation/ experimentation/data collection/ attend a conference/present a paper in a conference/ symposium after due permission from his/her supervisor(s) and approval of the concerned Head of Department. However, there shall not be any residential requirement for the regular internal faculty registered as part-time RS, and also other part-time RS employed in an AICTE/UGC approved institution in Jalandhar/within a radius of 200 KM around NIT, Jalandhar, or external candidates sponsored from a centrally-funded institution/ university/Research laboratory of Government of India/Public Sector undertakings/state funded University /institution having a MOU with NIT, Jalandhar. These external/part time RSs shall be required to submit a Certificate from their Employers at the time of registration stating that the concerned candidate(s) is an employee of that organization and is allowed to pursue his/her research work at NIT, Jalandhar, and his/her routine work permit him/her to devote sufficient time for research work. In case of transfer/ deputation/change of employment, it will be the responsibility of the RS to obtain the similar document from his/her new/immediate employer and submit it to the institute. But for all other external/part time RS, this residential requirement shall be minimum of 06 months. A full time research scholar may be allowed to continue as part time research scholar only after the successful completion of his/her comprehensive examination and then onwards he/she will be governed by Part-Time PhD regulations. 
 
12. Comprehensive Viva-voce Examination 
12.1 The comprehensive examination of the RS shall be held after six months (minimum) of registration, provided he/she has passed the course work prescribed by the RAC. If RS does not submit his/her research plan/detailed research proposal for the purpose of his comprehensive examination within 18 months of his/her registration, then his/her registration shall stand cancelled and he/she shall have to apply for re-admission.  
 
12.2 The comprehensive examination shall be held as oral.  
 
12.3 For the comprehensive examination, the RS is required to present a Research Plan/Detailed Research Proposal before RAC. In case, the RAC is satisfied with the presentation, then he/she shall be declared successful/pass in the comprehensive examination and his/her Research Plan/detailed Research Proposal shall be approved. On the other hand, if the performance of the RS is not satisfactory, then he/she may be given one more chance to present his/her research proposal within three months of first presentation. After the second attempt, if the performance of the RS remains unsatisfactory, his/her registration shall be cancelled from the institute. 
 
13.  Pre-submission Seminar and submission of synopsis 
Upon satisfactory completion of course work including research methodology and comprehensive examination, which shall form part & parcel of PhD Programme, RS, before submission of synopsis, shall make a pre- PhD presentation in the Department that may be open to all faculty members and research students, for getting feedback and comments, which may be suitably incorporated into the draft thesis under the advice of the supervisor. If the RAC is satisfied with the performance of RS, he/she is required to submit the synopsis (10 copies) of his/her research work. 
The synopsis will be submitted preferably three months before the submission of PhD thesis. It should be computer printed on A4 size paper with appropriate references/bibliography.  
 
14. Submission of thesis 
14.1 On the recommendations of RAC, Dean (Academic) may allow a RS to submit his/her thesis provided he/she has published/accepted for publication minimum one research paper in a national/international refereed journal (out of his/her research work) and submitted the synopsis of his/her thesis subject to fulfilling all other regulations. 
14.2 The thesis should be written in English in a format, which may include preferably the following sections: i. Abstract 
ii. 	Introduction and objectives iii. 	Literature review 
iv.	Experimental/Theoretical work 
v.	Results and discussions 
vi.	Conclusions 
vii.	Scope of the future work 
viii.	References/Bibliography 
 
In thesis write up, the following guidelines should be followed: 
•	The thesis should be typed 1.5 spaced on both sides of the paper of A4 size, leaving 40 mm margin on the left hand side. After open house viva-voce to defend thesis finally, six copies of the thesis, with all photographs and illustrations, are to be submitted. 
•	Headings of sub-divisions of the text should be in lower case capitals, left aligned and bold. Sub-headings should be in lower case capitals and placed immediately next to the margin and the text should start from the next line. Further subheading should be lower case capitalized first letter only and placed next to the margin with colon. The matter would be in continuation of sub-heading. 
•	All symbols should be defined wherever they first appear and conform to the internationally accepted symbols. 
•	Tables should be also typed on A4 paper size. These should be numbered serially with the word ‘Table’ towards the left margin followed by title at the top of the table. Figure captions should be provided at the bottom of the figure. 
•	Reference cited in the text should be indicated by the author’s name and the year of publication in parenthesis. These should not be numbered and should be typed at the end of the paper in the alphabetical order. The title of the work should be within inverted commas. 
 
14.3	The RS is required to submit three copies of PhD thesis (spiral bound) to the Office of Dean (Academic) through his/her supervisor(s) and the concerned HOD provided he/she has already submitted his/her synopsis.  
 
14.4	The RS will submit a certificate from his/her research supervisor stating that the research work undertaken has been original and has not been published/printed anywhere else for the award of any degree. 
 
14.5	A certificate from the Accounts Section of the institute stating ‘no dues pending’ against RS will also be submitted along with the thesis. 
 
15. Evaluation of thesis 
15.1  The thesis shall contain account of the research work carried out by the RS leading to discovery of new facts and should give evidence of originality either in interpretation of data, development of new experimental or theoretical techniques or definite contribution to the advancement of knowledge. The thesis should give evidence regarding the capability of the RS to do independent research work.  
15.2 Along with the synopsis of PhD thesis submitted by the RS, the supervisor(s) shall forward a panel of eight examiners comprising of four foreign examiners and four Indian examiners (in a sealed envelope) through proper channel to Dean (Academic).  The examiners must be expert in the research area and preferably, their names may appear in the list of “References” in the PhD thesis submitted by the RS.  Out of which the Chairman, Senate, shall appoint one foreign examiner and one Indian examiner for the evaluation of PhD thesis. Dean (Academic) will obtain the willingness from the appointed examiners by sending them a copy of synopsis submitted by the RS.  The Chairman, Senate is empowered to amend the panel of examiners submitted by the research supervisor(s). 
15.3 After getting the willingness from the appointed examiners, Dean (Academic) will send two copies of spiral bound thesis to them for detailed evaluation.  
Dean (Academic) will convey to the thesis examiners that their evaluation reports should include: 
 
i. 	Definite statement as to whether the thesis is acceptable or not acceptable for the award of PhD Degree. ii. 	List of questions to be asked or clarifications to be sought from the RS during the viva-voce examination. 
iii.	The detailed statement regarding the quality of the work undertaken. 
iv.	Statement whether the quantity of work done is sufficient for the award of Ph.D Degree or not. v. 	In case the examiners feel that: Definite Revision of the thesis is required  
Or, the thesis is not acceptable in the present form and has to be completely re-written due to insufficient quantity and/or quality of research work undertaken, it should be clearly stated. 
15.4	After receiving of the examiners’ reports, the Photostat copies of the reports shall be forwarded to the concerned research supervisor(s) by Dean (Academic). The research supervisor(s) shall send his/her comments to the Dean (Academic) for further action.  
15.5	If one or both examiners ask for complete/partial revision of the thesis, the RS will be asked to re-submit the thesis after incorporating the necessary changes in light of the comments of the examiner(s) within a period of six months. The resubmitted thesis may be sent to the same examiner(s) again for evaluation, if required. 
15.6	If one or both examiners recommend the thesis for the award of PhD degree, subject to minor changes, the RS will be asked to re-submit the thesis after incorporating the changes in light of the comments of the examiner within a period of three months. The re-submitted thesis may be sent to the same examiner(s) only if the Examiner(s) has mentioned about it in his/her report(s). 
15.7	In case, both the examiners give positive/favorable reports, the thesis will be considered accepted. However, if one of the examiners gives positive/favorable report and the other rejects the thesis, then another copy of thesis shall be sent to a third examiner (same set of examiner) appointed by the Chairman, Senate from the panel already given by the research supervisor(s). If the report of the third examiner is found positive/favorable, then the thesis shall be considered accepted. In case, the third examiner rejects the thesis, then the Chairman, Senate will decide (on the basis of the reports of examiners), whether the thesis is to be rejected/or referred again to a new set of examiners for a fresh evaluation. 
15.8	In all other cases, not covered by the above regulations, the matter will be referred to the RAC for consideration. 
15.9	A RS whose thesis has been accepted for the award of PhD degree shall be required to appear in Open House Viva Voce Examination before the following committee/panel: 
1.	Dean (Academic)  
2.	One of the External Examiners 
3.	Head of the concerned department 4. 	 Research supervisor(s) 
After satisfactory performance of the RS in the open house viva-voce examination, this committee shall forward its recommendations to the Chairman Senate for the award of PhD degree to the RS. The Chairman Senate will recommend to the Senate for the award of PhD degree to the successful RS.  
The RS is required to submit six hardbound copies of his/her PhD thesis as per the approved format alongwith a soft copy (in a CD) in PDF format. The distribution of these six copies is as follows: 
a.	For central library (along with CD) 
b.	For departmental library          
c.	For the RS 
d.	For one supervisor 
e.	For second supervisor 
f.	For the Office of Dean (Academic)  
g.	In case, there are more than two supervisors, then the number of copies to be submitted by the RS will increased accordingly, i.e. six plus number of supervisors more than two. 
h.	One CD to be deposited with UGC 
15.10	In case the RS fails in the open house viva-voce examination, he/she may be permitted to reappear in the open house viva-voce examination at a later date (approved by the Chairman, Senate) after the recommendation has been made by the RAC in this regard. 
15.11	If the open house viva voce examination committee/panel finds that the performance of the RS is not satisfactory even on the second occasion, the matter will be referred to the Institute Senate for a decision. 
15.12	Depository with UGC:  Following the successful completion of the evaluation process and announcements of the award of PhD, the Institute shall submit a soft copy of the PhD thesis to the UGC within a period of thirty days, for hosting the same in INFLIBNET, accessible to all Institutions/Universities. 
15.13	Issuance of Provisional Certificate:  On successful completion on the Open House viva after evaluation of thesis the candidate shall be issued a provisional certificate certifying to the effect that the Degree has been awarded in accordance with the provisions of UGC Regulations-2009 for Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of PhD Degree.    
 
16. Award of Degree 
If the performance of the RS has been satisfactory in the open House viva-voce examination as per Clause 15, he/she will be awarded PhD degree on the recommendations of the Senate and with the approval of the Board of Governors. 
 
17. Conversion of full-time admission to part-time for RS The RS (full-time) may be allowed to continue as RS (part-time) if he/she satisfies the following conditions: 
1.	The request from the RS in this regard is made to Dean (Academic) through proper channel and he/she has already passed the prescribed course work. 
2.	His/her progress report by his/her supervisor(s) is found satisfactory. 
3.	In case, he/she has been offered a regular job in some organization, then he/she may obtain a ‘no objection certificate’ from his/her employer to continue his/her research work as a part-time RS at NIT, Jalandhar and enclose along with his/her request for the purpose. 
4.	The RS may be allowed to register as part-time candidate only after the recommendation of the RAC and approval of Chairman, Senate. 
5.	The full-time RS after conversion to part-time RS shall not be considered for any scholarship/stipend/contingency grant/ teaching assistantship as meant for full-time RS. 
6.	All rules and regulations of part-time programme shall be applicable for such RS. Further, once changed to part time candidature, the concerned RS cannot revert back.  
 
18. Stipend cum Teaching Assistantship/Scholarship and Contingency grant  
Stipend cum Teaching Assistantship/Scholarship and Contingency grant shall be given to the admitted candidates as per the latest notification of the MHRD in this regard. However, Stipend cum Teaching Assistantship/Scholarship and Contingency grant to the candidate working under the Sponsored Projects coordinated by the faculty of the institute shall be given as per the terms and conditions of the project. 
 
20. Remuneration to Examiners 
The remuneration payable to each examiner shall be decided by the Institute from time to time. 
 
 
 
Regulations for the Admission to PhD Programme and Award of PhD Degree (Regular & Part Time) 
 
A. Attached to Clause No. 1.3 of PhD Regulations  
Candidate/staff working under the projects, those having appropriate provisions for salaries and contingency grant for the required duration which are sponsored by reputed industrial organization (s) and coordinated by the institute faculty as Principal investigator/Coordinator shall also be eligible for admission to PhD programme. 
 
B. Attached to Clause No. 12 of PhD Regulations (Regular) 
The research plan/detailed research proposal to be submitted by the RS for Comprehensive Examination shall be called as 'PhD Research Proposal', which shall preferably be prepared on the following guidelines: 
 
1.	The proposal may have the following Sections: 
i.	Introduction, which may include brief introduction to the research area, its importance and brief review of literature on the proposed area of research.  
ii.	Research Significance 
iii.	Objectives  
iv.	Scope and Methodology 
v.	Bar Chart indicating time schedule 
vi.	List of most appropriate references 
 
2.	The title page should contain the proposed title of the research, name and roll number of the RS, name (s) of the supervisor (s), department, institute, month and year of submission.  
3.	The total number of pages of the proposal are limited to 15 inclusive of the title page. 
4.	It should be typed on  A4 size paper, Times New Roman 11 point font  size, preferably at 1.5 line spacing with 30 mm margin on left and 25.4 mm margin on right, top and bottom. 
5.	The Major Headings as given in S.No.1. above shall be in bold block capitals having 12 point font size. The Sub headings (if any) shall be bold title case. 
 
(C) Attached to Clause No. 13 of PhD Regulations (Regular) 
 
The Synopsis to be submitted by the RS for Pre-Submission Examination shall be called as 'PhD Synopsis'. It should preferably contain Sections on Introduction which includes brief Review of Literature, Objectives, brief Methodology, brief Analysis of Results, Case Studies if any, Conclusions and Recommendations. List of publications should also be given at the end. The Figure (s) and Table (s) may only to be given if considered utmost necessary.   The formatting guidelines of the PhD Research Proposal given above in (B) may be followed.  
The title page should contain the title of the research, name and roll number of the RS, name (s) of the supervisor (s), department, institute, month and year of submission.  
The total number of pages of the synopsis are limited to 10 inclusive of the title page. 
 
8.2 Regulations for the Admission to PhD Programme and Award of PhD Degree (Part-Time) 
 
1.	Eligibility Criteria for Admission: 
 
1.1	PhD for Internal Candidates: 
Faculty/Technical/Scientific staff of NITJ preferably having two-year’s experience and possessing the same academic qualifications as that for PhD regular candidates, are eligible to apply for PhD Programme (as a part-time candidate).  
1.2	PhD for External Candidates: 
External candidates specified by Industry/Institute having R & D facility recognized by NITJ preferably with two-years’ experience and having same academic qualifications as that for PhD regular candidates are eligible to apply for PhD Programme (as a part-time candidate). In–service candidates must have to submit No Objection Certificate of their employer. 
1.3	PhD for Candidate/Staff working under Sponsored Projects: 
 Candidate/staff working under the projects sponsored by MHRD/DST/UGC or some other government agency and coordinated by the institute faculty as Principal investigator/Coordinator shall be eligible for admission to PhD programme. However the candidate/staff should have the same academic qualifications as given in 1.1.  
	2 	Duration of Programme 
       A RS under external/part time/faculty/staff scheme is allowed to submit his/her thesis within 03 to 4½ years from the date of registration, after which he/she shall have to request for extension for submission of thesis. The Research Advisory Committee may extend the period of submission of thesis by another 2½ year. Thus, maximum duration for submission of thesis is limited to 07 years.  However the student is permitted to submit the thesis only after the completion of minimum three years from the date of registration for the programme.  
 
 
 
	3 	Stipend cum Teaching Assistantship/Scholarship and Contingency grant  
No Stipend cum Teaching Assistantship/Scholarship and Contingency grant shall be given to the candidates admitted as under Part-Time PhD Programme. However, Stipend cum Teaching Assistantship/Scholarship and Contingency grant to the candidate working under the Sponsored Projects coordinated by the faculty of the institute shall be given as per the terms and conditions of the project. 
 
	4 	Other Conditions 
Rest all other rules/regulations will be same as that of regular Ph. D. programme. Annexure-I 
 
 
8.3 Provision of makeup examination for UG/PG programmes 
The existing provision of two summer course, winter and makeup examination for UG program is extended to PG students also on rolls irrespective of their year of admission. 
 
8.4 Revision of contingency grant of project to the BTech /PG/PhD students 
Course 	Amount 
PhD Students 	Rs.30,000-00 
PG Students 	Rs.15,000-00 
BTech Students 	Rs.5,000-00 
 
8.5 Provisions of Seminar grant for attending International/National Conference to UG/PG student 
It has been decided that UG/PG students may also be provided seed money as per details mentioned below to support partially their registration and travel expenses. 
International Conference 	B.Tech/PG 	Rs.10,000-00 
 	PhD 	Rs.25,000-00 
National Conferences 	B.Tech/PG 	100% reimbursement may be allowed to UG/PG students 
 	PhD 	
 
8.6 Summer/Winter contact courses to B Tech / PG students 
Only two summer contact courses will be allowed to the students for clearing their backlogs during summer course. No winter course will be allowed to the students (as per Senate decision in its 20th meeting). 
 
8.7 Improvement in CGPA 
If a BTech/MTech student wants to improve upon the CGPA, to be eligible for the award of degree, he should be given a time of maximum one year to improve his/her CGPA after completion of all course work with the following conditions: 
i.	The improvement shall be allowed for only in those theory courses in which the students had earlier secured minimum grades (with appropriate fees). 
ii.	If the CGPA of the student after improvement exceeds the minimum CGPA requirement for the award of degree i.e. 
5.0 and 6.0 for under graduates and postgraduates respectively, it will be restricted to 5.0 and 6.0 only. 
 
8.8 Fee Refund 
Institute shall refund the entire fee after deduction of one thousand rupee to those candidates who surrender/ withdraw their seat before the date of closing of the admission every year and seats vacated by them are filled through waiting listed candidates/ spot admissions. However only caution money shall be refunded to candidates who surrender / withdraw their admission after closing date of admission and the seats vacated by these candidates are remaining vacant thereafter. The above rule is applicable to those candidates only who are physically admitted to the institute and are on the rolls of the institute. However, those candidates who have been just allotted seat and are not physically admitted. The rules of admitting agency (like CCMT, CSAM etc.) will be applicable and same agency will be responsible for refund of fee. 
